>> Brian Holt: Let's talk about
how to manipulate things,
cuz that becomes really important.
Let's say that you know BT Holt
is browsing on your website and
he wants to, update or
add his address to it,
right so we can do select JSON, insert.
And you would do,
let's get that whole, where is this?
>> Brian Holt: So we have this object,
we give it there, we have that, and
then you wanna tell what you wanna insert,
so
I'm gonna put in I want to put in a city,
right.
And then you tell it what you wanna put
in there, and I wanna put in Sacramento.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
what do I expect to get back?
I expect to get back this object
that I've defined up here, but
it has one more key in it, which is city
and the value of that city is Sacramento.
Lo and behold, there you go,
worked okay, right?
Remove is kind of similar as well,
so I'm gonna do select,
JSON, remove,
I'm gonna need a single quote there.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, I don't think
I mentioned this anywhere else, but
just as a pro tip, if you ever need to put
single quotes inside of the single quotes,
double single quotes, right.
So if I wanted this to
end with a double or
with a one quote,
you have to put two quotes, and
that's how you do a single quote
inside of a SQLite query string.
>> Brian Holt: Cool,
there's that remove, and
then I want to remove favorites,
so I would do $.favorites.
What do I expect to get back?
I expect to get back this particular
object, but lacking favorites because I
told it to remove it with this JSON
remove function, and that's what I got.
>> Brian Holt: And JSON replace,
pretty similar as you might imagine,
you just wanna update the username or
something like that.
>> Brian Holt: So there's replace,
we're gonna update username.
>> Brian Holt: And we are gonna
update it to holt bt because I always
wanted I wanted btholt on Twitter and
it was taken By someone that hasn't
tweeted in like a decade, not bitter.
And so I have to go by HoltBT on Twitter,
there you go.
So this is just all the functions
we'll get back into actually how you
use them with the database
here in just a second.
I just wanted you to be exposed to all
the various different ways to craft
a JSON object to be used.
Now I'm gonna show you
how to do accessors,
which is actually part of the part
that you'll be using quite a bit.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so let's grab our,
>> Brian Holt: This thing again,
this one, okay, we have a object here.
What happens, I'll make this a little bit
wider so you can see it's all one line.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so I have this JSON
object and I want to get btholt out of it,
right, or I want to get
the username out of it, right.
So maybe I'm selecting
from my database and
I want to grab the user's name of
all the people in my users database.
What would I do?
Well, there's this like really
convenient way of doing it with SQL, and
there are these accessor arrows.
So again, this is just my font
combining them, it's a minus sign and
an angle bracket next to each other, which
it combines into a nice looking arrow,
which is nice.
And you just give it that,
and whatever you want out of
it,
>> Brian Holt: Okay and if I run that,
then I get BTHolt back,
>> Brian Holt: Pretty convenient,
right,
>> Brian Holt: Something critical about
this, which will make sense
here in just a second.
This is actually still a JSON object,
it's just a JSON object of a string, and
that's essentially the same thing.
But if you actually want the value out of
it, cuz this could be a number, right, and
SQLite would still give it to you at back
as a string as a JSON object, right.
A JSON value, essentially, if you
want the actual real item out of it,
you put another angle bracket here.
Mine will combine it into this fun looking
double arrow, and if I do that again,
you'll notice that there's no double
quotes there, that's kind of how you can
tell that it's not actually a JSON object,
it's really the value itself.
So I don't know, let's just fathom for
a second that your username
was the actual number 15,
as opposed to that's the double arrow,
single arrow,
it actually does give it back to as that.
So, that's the important distinction
between the single arrow and the double
arrow is the single arrow you can keep
doing more JSON Accessors in it, right.
So if it's a deeply nested object,
you can keep pulling stuff out of it, and
then the last one, the leaf,
the terminal accessor,
you wanna have the double arrow to
actually get the value out of it.
I think this is less important in SQLite,
this is extremely important in Postgres,
cuz it's like a bunch of stuff doesn't
work in Postgres the way that
you expect it to if you don't.
But in SQLite because
everything's string based,
I don't think it actually
matters too too much.
This is all real SQL grammar
that's built into the spec, so
I think they have to support
both ways of doing it.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah just to give you
some more examples of that, and again,
I don't think anyone wants to
watch me write this all out,
I'm just gonna grab one like this.
So this is a JSON username, and this has a
name field that is a deeply nested object,
that's another one that has first in it.
If I wanted to get just the whole object
out of there, I can do that in the notes,
this will give me back the whole
object of the name object.
And if I wanted to get out of it,
my actual name first like that,
then I would use the double arrow and
I would get back Brian.
Yeah, just to I'm now curious
what happens if we ask this JSON,
type on the single error,
single arrow, it might say,
I'm gonna guess it's gonna say,
>> Brian Holt: I don't know.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: I segfaulted,
that's interesting,
I have not segfaulted SQLite before.
Wild, let's load that.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
because I needed to get this all inside,
>> Brian Holt: It does give you back,
text, interesting, okay,
well, do what you want YOLO,
[LAUGH] I guess both of
them are gonna work.
It sounds like with escalate for the most
part, you might be able to ignore it,
this is untested advice,
this is just based on my observation here.
I will tell you that just out of habit
from doing this with PostgreSQL,
I will always make the last one the double
arrow just to get the actual value out,
that's what it's supposed to work like.
>> Brian Holt: Interesting, okay, so
I might retract what I just said because
this actually worked because
it's still a JSON object,
this didn't because it's like
this isn't valid JSON anymore.
It found that to be valid JSON, it found
this to be just a normal value and
therefore not valid,
cuz you'll get the double quotes,
it's back I think that's
the difference here.
I'm learning, learning is fun, so I think
if you do this like within a node app,
you'll get your string
back within double quotes,
which is probably not what you want.
You want it without the double quotes,
which is why the double
arrow becomes useful.
Okay, I talked myself out of it,
don't do this, do this.